So this is the second part in a two-part webinar. The first one was a few weeks
ago with RStudio Server Pro and then this one is about ShinyServer Pro. These
webinars are slightly different than some of the other webinars that we've
done in that they're geared towards administration of our products and they
are, you know, we'll be referring to the admin guides frequently. So this one's
about ShinyServer Pro and I'm really excited to do it and I've got a lot to
go through so we should just get started. To give you a brief background of our
product stack, for those of you that are maybe not that familiar with RStudio
products, we have an IDE, we have this thing called Shiny which is what we're
talking about today, and then we develop all these open source packages that are
freely available to the community. What is Shiny? Shiny is a web application
framework for R. You can turn your analyses into interactive web
applications and you don't need to know HTML, CSS, or JavaScript in order to build
these. This is a Hello World script that's on our main page, shiny.rstudio.com
and you can see that you have some interactive controls and you can add
some nice features here and then you can interact with this app. This app is built
with two pieces, one is the UI script that defines the user interface and then
the other one is server.r which defines the actual functionality of the app
itself. For example, histogram is in here and as well, which is right here, as well
as like the rug plot and the density lines. So this is a Shiny app, we have a
lot of lectures and discussions about Shiny apps, we're not going to be really
talking about developing Shiny apps today, we're going to be talking about
hosting those Shiny apps using Shiny Server Pro. The other thing that's a
little bit different about these webinars than the previous ones that we
have done is that these really are focused on our professional products and
we're doing that because if you're going to have an administrative team managing
the products, you're probably going to be using our professional products. So a lot
of the features that we'll be talking about today are specifically pro-related
products and I'm not going to differentiate between pro and open
source here, I'm going to, I will solely be referring to pro features without
making that distinction. So every Shiny application requires a Shiny Server on
the back end. Shiny Server Pro is the product that we use to help us secure
performance and monitor resource utilization, you know, and really make
your applications available to everyone in your organization or your
enterprise. We oftentimes get the question, what is the difference between Shiny and
Shiny Server? It's a really good question, I can relate because I had the same
question when it first was being developed. Shiny is an open source package
that is used to develop applications and it's used to build these responsive and
powerful applications. Shiny Server Pro is professional software that you
use to host the applications and it's designed to scale, protect, and manage and
secure your environment.